## Imprint

In accordance with § 5 TMG:

University Osnabrück  
Neuer Graben 29 / Schloss  
D-49074 Osnabrück  
Tel. +49 541 969 0  
Fax +49 541 969 4888  


Osnabrück University is a public body legally represented by the President Professor Dr. Susanne Menzel-Riedl.

Competent regulatory authority: Lower Saxony Ministry of Science and Culture, Leibnizufer 9, D-30169 Hannover

Value-added tax identification number in accordance with § 27a of the Value Added Tax Act: DE 154 285 400

**Online editing & support**  
Lucas Bechberger/Ulf Krumnack/Mingya Liu  
Institute of Cognitive Science  
Wachsbleiche 27  
D-49090 Universität Osnabrück

**Coordination & system administration**  
Lucas Bechberger  
Institute of Cognitive Science  
Wachsbleiche 27  
D-49090 Universität Osnabrück

**Server support**  
Frank Elsner, Andrea Tschentscher, Ansgar Hockmann-Stolle  
University Computer Center  
Albrechtstraße 28  
D- 49076 Universität Osnabrück

**Conceptual support, design and programming**  
A&B One Digital GmbH  
Burgstraße 27  
10178 Berlin  
Tel.: +49 30 4849320  
Fax: +49 30 48493232  
http://www.a-b-one-digital.de

**Exemption from liability**  
Those responsible at Osnabrück University have compiled the information contained on this website with the greatest of care. Nevertheless, Osnabrück University cannot assume any liability for the topicality, correctness, completeness or quality of the information and data provided.

For this reason, no liability claims can be made against Osnabrück University, those responsible for this website or the authors of the respective articles for material or immaterial damages caused by potentially inaccurate or incomplete information and data, unless there is intent or gross negligence involved.

This also applies to information on websites to which we refer via a hyperlink. At the time of linking, the content was free of any illegal content. Osnabrück University has absolutely no influence on the design of the linked websites. Constant monitoring of the content of the linked sites is unreasonable without concrete evidence of unlawful content. The content of these websites is therefore entirely outside the responsibility of Osnabrück University. Osnabrück University does not adopt the content of the linked websites as its own. Osnabrück University, those responsible for this website and the authors shall not assume liability for any damages resulting from inaccurate or incomplete content on websites referred to by a link.

**Privacy Statement in accordance with § 13 (1) of the German Telemedia Act (TMG)**  
Osnabrück University processes data solely in accordance with applicable rules relating to data protection.
The legal bases include:

[Lower Saxony Data Protection Act](http://www.nds-voris.de/jportal/?quelle=jlink&query=DSG+ND&psml=bsvorisprod.psml&max=true)

[Lower Saxony Higher Education Act](http://www.nds-voris.de/jportal/?quelle=jlink&query=HSchulG+ND&psml=bsvorisprod.psml&max=true)

[Osnabrück University Data Processing Order](https://www.uni-osnabrueck.de/fileadmin/documents/public/7_impressum/DatenverarbeitungsO_2013-09.pdf)

Data is stored on log files when internet users access individual pages of Osnabrück University web site. This data includes:
-Name of the retrieved file
-Time and date of retrieval
-Volume of data transferred
-Report on the success of the retrieval
-IP address and, where applicable, browser

This data, which is stored for one week, serves the purpose of tracing unauthorized access. Any statistical evaluation of the data will be carried out using an anonymized version of this data that does not enable the IP address to be traced.

**Analytical data**  
Our website uses the web analysis service Piwik. Piwik uses so-called “cookies”, i.e. text files that are stored on your computer that enable us to analyze the use of our website.

For this purpose, information generated by the cookie concerning your use of this website (including your shortened IP address) will be transmitted to our server and stored for use analysis purposes, enabling us to optimize our web presence. Your IP address is immediately anonymized during this process, meaning that you remain anonymous to us as a user.

The information generated by the cookie concerning your use of this website will not be passed on to third parties.  

You can avoid the use of Cookies by setting your browser software accordingly; in this case, however, you may not be able to use all functions of this website.

If you do not agree to the storage and evaluation of the data arising from your visit to the website, you may object to the storage and use at any time by clicking on the declaration below. In this case, a so-called opt-out cookie will be placed in your browser. This would mean that Piwik cannot collect any session data. When you delete your cookies, the opt-out cookie will also be deleted and may have to be reactivated by you.

[Go to notice of objection](https://www.uni-osnabrueck.de/en/piwik_deaktivierung.html)
